website/docs: Update docs for single logout (#17169)
goauthentik/authentik: website/docs/add-secure-apps/providers/oauth2/fontchannel_and_backchannel_logout.mdx

---
title: OAuth2/OpenID Connect front-channel and back-channel logout
description: Configure front-channel and back-channel logout for OAuth2/OpenID Connect providers
authentik_version: "2025.8.0"
authentik_preview: true
---

## Overview

> OAuth2/OpenID logout is a security feature defined in the OpenID Connect specification. It allows an OpenID Provider (OP), such as authentik, to notify Relying Parties (RPs) when a user session ends. This ensures that all associated applications can properly terminate the user's session.

Reviewer: Maybe we should just use OIDC?

> For more information about single logout across all providers, see the [Single Logout (SLO) Overview](../../flows-stages/stages/single_logout.md).

Reviewer 2: This link will have to be updated when you move the SLO docs to be under Providers.

:::warning

> Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must explicitly support OpenID Connect front-channel logout or back-channel logout to properly handle logout requests. Not all OAuth applications support these features, so compatibility should be verified.

Reviewer: I actually like the "Not all OAuth applications support these features, so compatibility should be verified."

Not many apps support it and it just emphasizes the fact.

:::

## Requirements

Your OAuth application (Relying Party) must:

    - **HTTPS**: Use HTTPS in production.
    - **Accessible**: Be reachable from authentik.
    - **Logout endpoint**: Have a defined endpoint to handle OP logout requests (front-channel, back-channel, or both).

## Configuration

### Set up single logout

1. In the Admin interface, navigate to **Applications** > **Providers**
2. Edit or create an OAuth2 provider
3. In the **Logout URI** field, enter the endpoint for logout (if supported by your RP)

> 4. Select the **Logout method** to define whether the RP supports **Front-channel logout** or **Back-channel logout** at that URI

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
4. Select the **Logout Method** to choose **Front-channel** or **Back-channel** based on RP support.
```

> 4. Using the **Logout method** radio, select whether the RP supports **Front-channel logout** or **Back-channel logout** at that URI.

Author: It isn't a toggle. A toggle is enabled/disabled. This item renders as a radio, which is a multiple choice option select. Explicitly calling it a radio does feel odd though

"Using the logout method options"?

> 4. Using the **Logout method** radio, select whether the RP supports **Front-channel logout** or **Back-channel logout** at that URI.

Reviewer 2: Oh! Sorry, radio buttons! OK, sorry... you can just say:

 "4. Select the **Logout method** to define whether the RP supports **Front-channel logout** or **Back-channel logout** at that URI."

> 5. Click **Finish** to save your changes

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
5. Click **Finish**.
```

:::tip
Back-channel logout is the only way to ensure users are logged out of the provider when their session is administratively terminated (e.g., when a user is deactivated or their session is deleted).
:::

### Logout URI format

> The logout URI should be a single URL provided by your Relying Party application, for example:

Reviewer 2: If "Logout URI" is a UI component, let's bold it and match capitaliztion of UI.

#### Back-channel

```
https://app.example.com/oauth/backchannel-logout
https://api.service.com/logout/backchannel
https://client.example.org/backchannel-logout
```

#### Front-channel

```
https://app.example.com/oauth/logout
https://api.service.com/logout
```

## How OpenID Connect single logout works

### Back-channel logout

> With back-channel logout, authentik sends logout requests directly from the server to the Relying Party's back-channel logout endpoint using HTTP POST. The logout request includes a signed JWT logout token that contains:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
With back-channel logout, authentik sends logout requests directly from the server to the RP’s logout endpoint via HTTP POST. The logout request includes a signed JWT logout token that contains the following JWT claims:
```

> - `iss` (issuer): The authentik issuer URL
> - `sub` (subject): The user's unique identifier
> - `aud` (audience): The client ID
> - `iat` (issued at): Token creation timestamp
> - `jti` (JWT ID): Unique token identifier
> - `events`: Logout event claim
> - `sid` (session ID): The session identifier (if available)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `iss` (issuer): The authentik issuer URL.
- `sub` (subject): The user's unique identifier.
- `aud` (audience): The client ID.
- `iat` (issued at): Token creation timestamp.
- `jti` (JWT ID): Unique token identifier.
- `events`: Logout event claim.
- `sid` (session ID): The session identifier (if available).
```

Example back-channel logout request:

```http
POST /backchannel-logout HTTP/1.1
Host: client.example.org
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded

logout_token=eyJhbGciOiJSUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9...
```

Back-channel logout is triggered when:

> - A user logs out through a logout flow
> - An administrator deletes a user's session
> - A user account is deactivated
> - A session expires or is revoked

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - A user logs out through a logout flow.
    - An administrator deletes a user's session.
    - A user account is deactivated.
    - A session expires or is revoked.
```

### Front-channel logout

With front-channel logout, authentik injects an iframe logout stage into the logout flow. This stage loads the Relying Party's front-channel logout URL in a hidden iframe within the user's browser. The logout URL includes session information as query parameters:

> - `iss`: The authentik issuer URL
> - `sid`: The session identifier

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - `iss`: The authentik issuer URL.
    - `sid`: The session identifier.
```

> With front-channel logout, authentik injects an iframe logout stage into the logout flow. This stage loads the Relying Party's front-channel logout URL in a hidden iframe within the user's browser. The logout URL includes session information as query parameters:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With front-channel logout, authentik injects an iframe logout stage into the logout flow. This stage loads the RP's (relying party) front-channel logout URL in a hidden iframe within the user's browser. The logout URL includes session information as query parameters:
```

> With front-channel logout, authentik injects an iframe logout stage into the logout flow. This stage loads the RP's (relying party) front-channel logout URL in a hidden iframe within the user's browser. The logout URL includes session information as query parameters:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In front-channel logout, authentik injects an iframe logout stage into the logout flow. This stage loads the RP's front-channel logout URL in a hidden iframe within the user's browser. The logout URL includes session information as query parameters, such as:
```

Example front-channel logout iframe:

```html
<iframe
    src="https://app.example.com/oauth/logout?iss=https://authentik.company&sid=session_id"
></iframe>
```

The RP processes the logout request and terminates the user's session. After all iframes complete their requests, the user continues through the authentik logout flow.

:::info
Front-channel logout only works for user-initiated logouts through a logout flow. It cannot be used for administrative session termination since it requires an active browser session.
:::

> ## Related Documentation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Resources
```
